With me now,
CNN military analyst, retired Major
General James Spider Marks.
Spider, great to see you here.
John,
this is the restricted area right now
where the Israeli military is massing.
We have seen satellite images of tanks
lining up, literally lining up here,
preparing to go.
I can show you where that is.
This is not privileged
top secret information.
The Israelis have made very clear
where this is happening.
Those pictures were taken from up here.
We can also assume there might be tanks
preparing elsewhere in this restricted
so and so, Spider.
What are they doing now
and what are they getting ready to do?
Yeah.
At this particular point, John,
what they're doing is what we call pre
combat checks.
Individuals and teams
are getting ready to go.
There's a lot of silence.
There's a lot of focus.
This is business.
Nobody's messing around.
They're also doing rehearsals.
What's going to take place on the ground?
They've got a scheme of maneuver.
They have a plan.
They're using sand,
what we call sand tables.
And they're trying to figure out
what they're going to do.
They're going to refine that.
But simultaneously, they're doing
intelligence collection.
We'll talk to me
about the intelligence collection
right now.
What different
types of intelligence are you?
Yeah, well,
what they're probably using, I would
I would imagine,
is they're probably using drones.
They want to get the drones up
in the air.
They want to get the very latest
because those plans will be altered
based on many drones.
Yeah.
Imagery, imagery, intelligence
And the thing that they can do
at their level,
you know,
the individual operators can fly drones.
They can get intelligence
that's going to affect them
in a very tactical way.
They're also probably putting
special ops teams, very small teams
across into Gaza.
There's lots of chaos.
There's a lot of smoke.
There's a lot of haze.
There's a lot of stuff going on
so they can infiltrate folks
to put eyes on targets as best they can.
So I would imagine
that's taking place as well.
And they're also tracking the cell phones
of all the Hamas leaders.
Signals intelligence,
signals intelligence. Exactly. Correct.
And that's why they're that's why
there is targeting
taking place right now in southern Gaza,
because that's where a lot of the Hamas
leadership phones are located.
Yeah, we were talking about that
right here.
This is this is the imagery from Rafah.
You can see where
some of those things are taking place.
We have some video here
also of the trucks
coming over right there.
But as you were looking at that,
you think that they made those strikes
because they were following
signals intelligence. Absolutely.
And you look at where Hamas was located.
Look, they're not completely
and exclusively focused in the north.
Got it there throughout Gaza.
Let's go back.
I want to talk about these tanks
that we see preparing to go in
when they do make that decision to go
in, whether it's this weekend
or a few days from now,
what paths do you think they'll take?
Yeah, I think what's going to happen
if it's more than just tanks,
these are combat arms teams.
So you've got infantry
that's mounted,
you've got armor forces,
you've got artillery, etc..
And it's going to be preceded
by good intelligence.
I think what they would probably do,
look, the Wadi Gaza comes through here.
That's a river marshland.
Yeah, it's the wetlands.
I think what they would do is they would
enter in from here.
They'd come in on
multiple axes of advance.
They'd come in from the north.
Of course they'd come in here.
And also, Israel has a navy.
They've got
what's called Corvettes,
which are small, smaller attack ships.
They've got 45 patrol boats
and they've got 10,000
sailors on active duty.
I would also anticipate activity
that would look like this,
because what Israeli Israel wants to do
you want to secure this combat zone,
you want to secure the perimeter,
and then you go,
all these units will link up,
go to the same place, link up
then you begin the operation
to go after very specific targets.
And those targets, John,
are really the political
and military leaders of Hamas people,
the people they want to go after them.
And I think they would
probably have either
a kill or capture mission
in this particular case.
I would imagine it's a kill mission.
Second thing,
they want to go
after is the tunnel complex,
which is extensive, as you realize.
I can show you
they're going to lose this.
This is a map of what
the tunnels look like
in 2021 is some time ago
they've probably expanded and redone it.
But you can see
some of the tunnel imagery
that was there
that that is the most difficult task
that they have to take on.
This is urban terrain
with the subterranean peace
and Israel has got to identify,
they have to deny
and they have to destroy those tunnels.
That is a man combat suck.
That's going to draw people into it.
This is going to be a difficult,
difficult fight.
All right, Spider,
thank you so much
for explaining all this.
Don't go far because obviously,
you know, more things could be happening
very, very soon. Thank you very much.